= Configuration =

The Information Workbench comes with a predefined configuration. The configuration consists of the following components:

# '''Web Server Configuration'''<br>The jetty web server configuration file can be found in fiwb/etc/jetty.xml. The most important parameters you might want to adjust here are the parameters jetty.port (default: 8888) and the SSL-port (default: 8443). You can reset them in the jetty.xml file to adequate values for your demands. Note that the SSL-port will have to be reset in two places of the file: field confidentialPort in the SelectChannelConnector and the field Port in the SslSocketConnector.
# '''Runtime Environment Configuration'''<br>The Information Workbench gives the user full control over the configuration of the Java Runtime Environment the service is running in. The configuration can be accessed by editing the file fiwb/backend.conf (or fiwb/yajsw/backendx64.conf when running on a 64 bit Java VM). Adjustments to this file should be added with highest caution, since they can lead to the server not starting anymore.<br>One parameter in particular worth mentioning is the parameter wrapper.java.maxmemory which is initially set to 512 (MB). This should be sufficient for most applications. If problems related to insufficient memory occur during operating the Information Workbench, consider increasing this value. It should be noted that the current version of the Information Workbench open source release operates in 32 bit mode, so the maximum heap size is limited to 4 GB (wrapper.java.maxmemory=4096). The user should also keep in mind, that there also are limitations to the memory he is allowed to provision to the service by the operating system. Over-provisioning of memory to the Information Workbench will result in the process exiting with a message that there is not enough memory available to be reserved for the Information Workbench. In this case, please adjust the value of wrapper.java.maxmemory accordingly.
# '''Information Workbench Operational Configuration'''<br>The configuration of the Information Workbench itself can be adjusted by editing the file ''fiwb/config.prop''.  The Admin:Config page provides an interface to make this task easier. The following table will give you an overview of all relevant configuration parameters. Changes to this configuration file will become effective after the next restart of the server. If a parameter is not specified in the configuration file, the default value is used during operation. 
# '''Configuration of RDF Repositories'''<br>The Information Workbench supports a set of triple stores which you can choose from. For more information, see [[Help:RepositoryConfiguration|Configuration of RDF Repositories]].

The following table gives an overview of all relevant configuration parameters you might want to adjust to your own demands. The parameters are classified in four categories: DEBUG, CORE, DATABASE, and PIVOT.

{{ #widget:com.fluidops.iwb.widget.ConfigDocumentation | className = 'com.fluidops.iwb.util.Config' }}