= Installation =
				
Installing the Information Workbench on Windows can be done easily using the Windows installer. Alternatively, it can be installed manually from the distribution:

1) Download the distribution of the Information Workbench.

2) Unpack the distribution into a directory of your choice  (e.g. /opt/fluidOps/iwb). In the following, we will refer to the absolute pathname of this directory by &lt;IWB_HOME_DIRECTORY&gt;.

== Installing the Information Workbench ==

The Information Workbench supports both Windows and Linux based operating systems.

=== Windows===

It is recommended to use a 64bit Windows operating system with a 64Bit Java SE Runtime Environment in version 1.7 (taken from the JDK). The reference version shipped with this release is JRE SE ''1.7.0_05 64bit''. This is also the version used in steps a) and b) below.</p>


==== a) Running the installed service ====


If you installed the Information Workbench as a service with the provided installer, you can start/stop the application using the Windows ''services'' configuration tool (i.e. Start->Run->services.msc). The Information Workbench service is called ''fluid Operations Information Workbench''.</p>

	
==== b) Running the Information Workbench as executable ====
	
If you downloaded the distribution or if you want to execute the Information Workbench manually, we provide a ''start.cmd'' script in the Information Workbench home directory (i.e. the install location).

==== c) Running the Information Workbench on a 32bit Windows operating system ====
		
The Information Workbench can be run on a 32bit Windows operating system by following the steps below:

		
* Download and install [http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html Java SE 32-Bit JDK version 1.7]
* Set the path of java.exe in the file <IWB_HOME_DIRECTORY>/fiwb/backend.conf, examples:
*:*''wrapper.java.command=C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.7.0_05\bin\java.exe'' (absolute path)
*:*''wrapper.java.command=java'' (if the java command is in the Path environment)
* Execute the Information Workbench using option a) or b).

Once the Information Workbench is running (which may take up to a few minutes), navigate to the application entry page:

'''[http://localhost:8888]'''

=== Linux===

To run the Information Workbench under Linux a Java SE Runtime Environment version 1.7 (taken from the JDK) must be installed. Note that the Information Workbench does not ship a reference version bundled with the release.

* Download and install [http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html Java SE 32-Bit or 64-Bit JDK version 1.7].
* Make sure the java command is added to the command-path of the user root.


====a) Running as service====

* Create a user under which the iwb shall run, e.g. "fluid" (in the following we will refer to this user as <IWB_USER>).
* If you did not choose "fluid" as user, the script &lt;IWB_HOME_DIRECTORY&gt;/fiwb/iwb.sh has to be adapted accordingly:
** Search for "RUN_AS_USER=fluid" and replace fluid by &lt;IWB_USER&gt;
* Execute the script linux-install.sh in <IWB_HOME_DIRECTORY> as user root, like follows: 
  bash -eu linux-install.sh &lt;IWB_USER&gt;
		

This installs an init-script as <code>/etc/init.d/iwb</code> and starts the application. To make sure this script is executed on reboot create corresponding links in the run-level specific directories.  Depending on your distribution, this can be done with: 
<code>chkconfig -a iwb</code> or with <code>insserv iwb</code>

====b) Running the Information Workbench as executable====

* Make sure all script are executable by executing in <IWB_HOME_DIRECTORY>:
			
  chmod +x *.sh fiwb/*.sh fiwb/wrapper-linux*
* If you do not want to run the Information Workbench as user "fluid", the script &lt;IWB_HOME_DIRECTORY&gt;/fiwb/iwb.sh has to be adapted accordingly:
** Search for "RUN_AS_USER=fluid" and replace fluid by your preferred user (this user must exist on your system)
* Execute <code>start.sh</code> in &lt;IWB_HOME_DIRECTORY&gt;.
		

=== Opening the Information Workbench===

Once the Information Workbench is running (which may take up to a few minutes), it can be accessed at [http://localhost:8888]. On the default start page you can find a tutorial with some first steps as well as links to important pages (such as the detailed user documentation).

By default, an administrator account with credentials '''admin/iwb''' is created. It is highly recommended to change the password in the Admin area after the first login.
		
== Non-standard Installations ==

This section contains some information about how to configure and run the Information Workbench using special configurations.

=== Running Two Instances on the Same Host ===

The following configuration settings need to be adjusted to run two Information Workbench instances on the same host.

Steps for running two instances on the same host

# In %iwb%/fiwb/etc/jetty.xml: change ports for http and https (e.g. 8888->9999, 8443->9443), 3 places
# In config.prop: serverUrl=<nowiki>http://localhost:9999</nowiki>, RMIPort=2099

=== Extending the Application Through a Customization Artifact ===

After startup the application installs a customization artifact found in the application's <code>apps</code> folder. A detailed documentation can be found [[Help:Extensions|here]].


== Using the Information Workbench SDK in Eclipse ==

For the following steps we assume the reader to be familiar with the development platform Eclipse. Please refer to the user documentation for details

# Open Eclipse and create a new workspace
# Select "File -> Import -> General -> Existing Projects into Workspace"
# Check "Select archive file" and browse for the IWB zip archive
# Choose the "fiwb" project in the "Projects" listing and click "Finish"
# The project can be started using the launch configuration "Start_IWB.launch": right-click on the file and select "Run As"
    
Details about SDK development can be found on the ''Help:Developers'' page in a running system.
    	
'''Note: a recent version of the Eclipse IDE is required, i.e. Eclipse Helios or newer'''

== Troubleshooting ==
				
'''Where can I find additional information''' 
		
The Information Workbench is configured to write logging output to ''&lt;IWB_HOME_DIRECTORY&gt;/fiwb/logs/''. Runtime logs of the Information Workbench can be found in service.log, while output of the wrapper is written to ''wrapper.log''. Please consider these files as a first source for further information. Note that the logging level can be configured in ''&lt;IWB_HOME_DIRECTORY&gt;/fiwb/etc/log4j.properties''.</p>

==Important Notes==
=== Shutting Down the Information Workbench ===

* '''Windows Service:''' Go to the Services configuration tool and stop the service
* '''Linux Daemon:''' Invoke /etc/init.d/iwb stop
* '''Command line:''' Exit the Information Workbench by clicking in the command line window and pressing Ctrl + c.
* '''IMPORTANT:''' Never exit the Information Workbench by closing the command line window without proper shutdown. This can result in corrupting the data store and loss of data.